# 3BITSWITCH Project

This module gives you a 2 to 8-channel switch, controllable from the buttons on the front panel or via the gate inputs.  The circuit can be used bidirectionally; i.e a signal can be sent to one of eight destinations or one of eight signals can be selected to go to the output.  Its a variation of the [[/modules/3vcswitch.md|3VCSWITCH]].  It uses a 4051 chip, a 1-to-8 multiplexer/demultiplexer.  

Interesting patterns can be generated by patching LFOs or triggers to the GATE inputs.  It pairs wonderfully with trigger modules.

The state of the bits A, B and C determines the INPUT/OUTPUT.  For example, let's suppose we have a signal coming into IO1:

- If all bits are LOW (0V), the signal will go through OUTPUT 1 

- If A is HIGH and both B and C are LOW, the signal will go through OUTPUT 2

- If B is HIGH and both A and C are LOW, the signal will go through OUTPUT 3

- ... and so  on.

A, B and C set the binary number of the INPUT/OUTPUT.

| '''A'''            | '''B''' | '''C''' | '''Output''' |
|--------------------|---------|---------|--------------|
| 0                  | 0       | 0       | 1            |
| 1                  | 0       | 0       | 2            |
| 0                  | 1       | 0       | 3            |
| 1                  | 1       | 0       | 4            |
| 0                  | 0       | 1       | 5            |
| 1                  | 0       | 1       | 6            |
| 0                  | 1       | 1       | 7            |
| 1                  | 1       | 1       | 8            |

A nice extension for  this module  would be converting it to a variable  sequencer, adding a pot  for  each channel then routing their  signal to a single  OUTPUT.

!!! Inputs

* '''IO1''' - IN/OUT going  to/from OUTPUTS
* '''GATE1''' - a +5V signal here sets bit A to HIGH
* '''GATE2''' - a +5V signal here sets bit B to HIGH
* '''GATE3''' - a +5V signal here sets bit C to HIGH
* '''+5V''' - output giving +5V

!!! Outputs

* '''1-8''' - OUT/IN from/to IO1

!!! Controls

* '''A button''' - When pressed sets bit A to HIGH, ignoring the GATE1 signal.
* '''B button''' - When pressed sets bit B to HIGH, ignoring the GATE2 signal.
* '''C button''' - When pressed sets bit C to HIGH, ignoring the GATE3 signal.

!!! Schematics
(right click and open in new tab to see it in full size)
[[img|diy/images/3bitswitch-schematics.png|900]]

And this is the layout on the perfboard:

[[img|diy/images/3bitswitch-perfboardlayout.png|500]]

!!! Patch Suggestions

This module is excellent for providing variation in rhythms / sequences by cutting a trigger in or out via the buttons if "playing" the AE modular, or the gate inputs - the latter can be done with an LFO, envelope or one of the sequencer modules. It works really well with all of the sequencer and counter/divider modules.  Combine them to get even more interesting results.

To use it as a gate/trigger sequencer, patch the +5V output to the IO1, then any combination of LFOs and/or other triggers to the GATEs.  Different patterns will be sent through the OUTPUTS.

Following is a video featuring the module:

+5V patched to IO1

Each of the OUTPUTS is patched to one of the DRUMKIT010 inputs.

Two MM-DIV outputs are patched to GATE1 and GATE2 to provide steady rhythm.

GATE3 receives the  signal from ALGODRONE's output, giving the whole thing a touch of chaotic randomness.

The DRUMKIT is then sent out after some minor processing.

%embed% https://youtu.be/Nu6kwDNkhsY %%
