# Pitagora Suitchi

[[img|modules/images/p_suit_panel.png|300]]

Pitagora Suitchi is a port of Mutable Instruments *Marbles*. Billed as a "random sampler", this module offers a powerful source of inter-related clock pulses and random CV values. There are several methods of rhythm generation (*t*), including patterns from Mutable *Grids* and a *Branches*-style Bernoulli gate. Furthermore, a jitter control offers the ability to introduce varying amounts of rhythmic drag, from mild humanisation up to random bursts of triggers.

On the CV side (*X*), new values are generated in line with every gate pulse. These values can be chromatic or quantised, slewed or stepped, and biased in favour of high or low values.

Finally, a central 'deja vu' section operates in the style of a Turing Machine, allowing patterns of gates and/or CV to be looped. A loop can be modified either by introducing new values, or by shuffling existing values in the buffer.

Module power consumption: 85mA

## Inputs

* **T CLOCK** - external clock input for the *t* section, for gate/pulse inputs
* **RATE** - CV rate control
* **JITTER** - CV control of the jitter parameter
* **DEJA VU** - CV control of the deja vu position
* **STEPS** - CV control of the step setting
* **SPREAD** - CV control of the 'spread' of *X* values (or input for external CV source when external mode is engaged)
* **X CLOCK** - external clock input for the *X* section
* **T BIAS** - CV control over *t* bias
* **X BIAS** - CV control over *X* bias **Note: this input is on the right hand side, under the outputs**

## Outputs

* **T1** - gate output (1), probability affected by bias
* **T2** - lead gate output which fires on every clock tick
* **T3** - gate output (3), probability affected by bias
* **Y** - a free-running random CV source
* **X1** - CV source generated on each pulse of T1
* **X2** - CV source generated on each pulse of T2
* **X3** - CV source generated on each pulse of T3


## Controls

*This is a general overview, recommend reading the [[https://pichenettes.github.io/mutable-instruments-documentation/modules/marbles/manual/ | official MI Marbles manual]] for some of the more complex controls.*

* **INT / EXT CLOCK SLIDERS** - switch between the internal clock driven by rate knob/cv, and an external clock pulse. The *t* and *X* sections can be clocked independently.

* **DEJA VU** - the two large buttons engage pattern looping for the *t* and *X* sections respectively. The knob determines how values in the loop are managed. When centered (both buttons will flash) the loop will be repeated indefinitely with no change. Turn anti-clockwise to start introducing new values to the loop. Clockwise from centre, the existing values will increasingly be shuffled around.

* **LENGTH** - sets the length of the deja vu loop.

* **RATE** - sets the speed of the main internal clock. The clock has three ranges, selected by the button with the clock symbol: standard (orange), x4 (red) and /4 (green).

The button to the left of rate sets the method in which gates are generated:

* Green: a coin is tossed at every pulse of T2, to decide whether the pulse is passed to T1 or T3. BIAS controls the fairness of the coin toss.
* Orange: T1 and T3 are generated by respectively multiplying and dividing T2 by a random ratio. Turn the BIAS knob fully clockwise or counter-clockwise to reach more extreme ratios.
* Red: the triggers alternate between T1 and T3, following the same kind of regularity as kick/snare drum patterns.

* **JITTER** - sets the amount of randomness in the clock timing. At fully counter-clockwise, the clock is fully stable. Going clockwise, increasing amounts of lag and catching up are applied, particularly beyond noon. Towards the far end of the range the clock becomes extremely chaotic. Jitter can be applied to both the internal clock and an external clock source.

* **SPREAD** - adjusts the probability distribution of the CV output values.

* **BIAS** - skews the distribution towards high or low values. In combination with the SPREAD control you can achieve quite precise control over the range of values produced (see the Mutable manual for a more detailed / graphical explanation of this)

* **STEPS** - adjusts the 'steppiness' of the output values. At noon, the voltages are stepped like a typical sample & hold. Turn counter-clockwise to smooth the edges. Turn clockwise to quantise to a scale, further clockwise gradually strips notes from the scale; at the extreme only the root note remains.

* **+V** - sets the overall size of the voltage range, from 0 - 2v to 0 - 5v.

The central button beneath LENGTH activates external processing mode. In this mode, the module samples the voltage present on the SPREAD CV input whenever a random value is needed for one of the *X* outputs.